




2.

The memory that surfaces is old and familiar: Athey waking to the bustle of Memphis's return, bloodied bandaged shoulder and a rifle slung over it. Her other hand holding what she recovered, a rescued child of the stack. 

BEFORE: Athey pauses the hologram. Memphis freezes with her mouth open, desperate. 

3. 

All those years of training. All those speeches.  How much time did Athey spend on Memphis's empty vision?  Other kids got to find their shape. Why was Athey hammered into a weapon? 

AFTER: At some point, the dream died, and like everything else, she kept that to herself.

4. 

Rich texture brushes her consciousness, each word felt the moment it's seen. Plant fibers on concrete. Pandanus amaryllifolius. A unique mixing technique. 

Then the knowledge flows in full: the forests of Siargao. 

5. 

Resign and run. No. Memphis chose Athey's shape, now she has to live with it, even if she doesn't believe in it anymore. 

6. 

Box it in, Athey. Stay in control. Memphis' voice, sharp through a helmet mic. Athey bites her lip like she did then, to anchor with pain. 

7.

"Nice glasses." The words come out flat.
"Oh. I printed them this morning...Sorry." Tika readjusts her glasses. "Were you crying?"
"No. Dust, allergies. And, you have nothing to be sorry about unless you were printing those when you have been learning with Tribe. It hurts Tribe when you leave them hanging like that."
"Tribe doesn't depend on me-Tribe stans. Look."

8.

If she took Memphis's advice, she could stop lying to Dina, she could-

9.

Memphis said they'd save people.  Build communities. That's what they did.

Half-melted candles light the railings to her home, keeping a vigil Athey didn't ask for because she isn't ready to believe in it. Memphis has faked her death enough that it's become a running joke. Each candle from someone who isn't laughing now. Athey pauses, clutches a spot on the rail between candles. 

Wax drips through the walkway's metal grating.

She straightens, walks toward her home, the windows brimming with golden light and the shadows of those she's spent Christmas and Passover with. Eid-Al-Adha and Diwali. 

10. 

No change but don't understand. Do last if still an issue.

11.

She flicks a speck away with her tongue
->
She tucks a loose strand of violet behind her ear, a strand loose from her dragon braid. 

12. 

Twenty pairs of glasses catch the overhead light like watching eyes. 
->
Christina's glasses catch the lamp lights first-then the others, twenty-two pairs, the stack's founders. Watching. 

13. 

Athey balked every bandit raid, every cannibal's kidnapping. Water runs every year. But all they see are the times she covered for Memphis slipping away from her domestic responsibilities. 

14. 

One by one, glasses slide down over eyes-the founders first, then the others. Ready to vote. Ready to override her.
->
Christina, who had covered for Memphis's missed holidays-slides her glasses down. Then others follow. 

15.

People stand. Then more. The room empties in silence, five to the lift at a time. 
->
Christina moves first, hands on wheels, rolls her wheelchair forward and turns to stop at the door. The room empties in silence save for the errant benediction uttered over Christina's head, each in it's own tone: "Moonlight guide you."

Athey follows them out, standing opposite Christina, meeting her black iron eyes. Waiting until the last founder joins the huddle around the lift. 

Christina rolls toward the lift, then stops, turns her head to the side, "I'm sorry, Athey. I know how harsh this feels but we can't play around right now this close to Water Day. You know they'll hurt us for it. We're too close for that."

Athey shrugs. Athey's never changed Christina's mind. 

Christina joins the thinning huddle and all that remains are their candles and the rosemary in the air. Black wicks and white wax. They all think Memphis is dead, just like that. Memphis deserves more. 


16.

But she knows what she needs to do, she needs to find Dina and quick, and for that she'll need to lean on Luft. Again.
->
She doesn't know what she needs to do. And, she doesn't have time to figure it out. She's got to find Dina, quick.
Athey exhales long and slow. Arms cross. She needs another favor from Luft after she had just hurt him with the last. One day he's going to say no. 
Athey's lip trembles. 
She can't lose him too.
The wind shifts.  One candle gutters and goes out. Athey goes into her home, toward the red image of Memphis on the wall, holo palms out. Memphis's voice fills Athey's home: "All I'm trying to say-what I mean is-."

